Adds Network Observability 1.2 release notes (#56244)
openshift/openshift-docs: networking/network_observability/network-observability-operator-release-notes.adoc

* Previously, for agents configured to send flows directly to the processor as gRPC+protobuf requests, the submitted payload could be too large and is rejected by the processors' GRPC server. This occured under  very-high-load scenarios and with only some configurations of the agent. The agent logged an error message, such as: _grpc: received message larger than max_. As a consequence, there was information loss about those flows.
Now, the gRPC payload is split into several messages when the size exceeds a threshold. As a result, the server maintains connectivity. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-617[*NETOBSERV-617*])

[id="network-observability-operator-1.2.0-known-issues"]
=== Known issue

> * In the 1.2.0 release of the Network Observability Operator, using Loki Operator 5.6, a Loki certificate transition periodically affects the `flowlogs-pipeline` pods and results in dropped flows rather than flows written to Loki. The problem self-corrects after some time, but it still causes temporary flow data loss during the Loki certificate transition. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-980[*NETOBSERV-980*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the 1.2.0 release of the Network Observability Operator, using Loki Operator 5.6, a Loki certificate rotation periodically affects the `flowlogs-pipeline` pods and results in dropped flows rather than flows written to Loki. The problem self-corrects after some time, but it still causes temporary flow data loss during the Loki certificate transition. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-980[*NETOBSERV-980*])
```

=== Bug fix

* Previously, unless the Loki `authToken` configuration was set to `FORWARD` mode, authentication was no longer enforced, allowing any user who could connect to the {product-title} console in an {product-title} cluster to retrieve flows without authentication.
Now, regardless of the Loki `authToken` mode, only cluster administrators can retrieve flows. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2169468[*BZ#2169468*])

//Content from https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/56051 builds 1.2 release section header and note about updating. Once that PR is merged, I'll rebase this one and pull in the header so the information below will follow.//

[id="network-observability-operator-1.2.0-features-enhancements"]
=== New features and enhancements

> [id="histogram-feature-1.2]

Author: Lol...I str8 up missed the end quotes on all these features 🤦‍♀️

==== Histogram in Traffic Flows view
* You can now choose to show a histogram bar chart of flows over time. The bar chart enables you to visualize the history of flows without hitting the Loki query limit.
<link>

[id="conversation-tracking-feature-1.2]
==== Conversation tracking

> * You can now query flows by *Log Type*, which enables grouping network flows by that are part of the same conversation. For more information, see xref:../../networking/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-working-with-conversations_nw-observe-network-traffic[Working with conversations]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can now query flows by *Log Type*, which enables grouping network flows that are part of the same conversation. For more information, see xref:../../networking/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-working-with-conversations_nw-observe-network-traffic[Working with conversations]
```

[id="health-alerts-feature-1.2]
==== Network Observability health alerts
* The Network Observability Operator now creates automatic alerts if the `flowlogs-pipeline` is dropping flows because of errors at the write stage or if the Loki ingestion rate limit has been reached. For more information, see xref:../../networking/network_observability/network-observability-monitoring.adoc#network-observability-viewing-alerts_network-observability[Viewing health information]. 

[id="network-observability-operator-1.2.0-bug-fixes"]

> === Bug fixes

Reviewer 2: That is how we do it in OCP RN and Virtualization does that way too.

* Previously, after changing the `namespace` value in the FlowCollector spec, eBPF Agent pods running in the previous namespace were not appropriately deleted. Now, the pods running in the previous namespace are appropriately deleted. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-774[NETOBSERV-774])

* Previously, after changing the `caCert.name` value in the FlowCollector spec (such as in Loki section), FlowLogs-Pipeline pods and Console plugin pods were not restarted, therefore they were unaware of the configuration change. Now, the pods are restarted, so they get the configuration change. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-772[NETOBSERV-772])

* Previously, network flows between pods running on different nodes were sometimes not correctly identified as being duplicates because they are captured by different network interfaces. This resulted in over-estimated metrics displayed in the console plugin. Now, flows are correctly identified as duplicates, and the console plugin displays accurate metrics. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-755[NETOBSERV-755])

> * Previously, the "reporter" option in the console plugin, which is used to filter flows based on the observation point of either source node or destination node, mixed the flows regardless of the node observation point. This was due to network flows being incorrectly reported as Ingress or Egress at the node level.  Now, the network flow direction reporting is corrected. The "reporter" option filters for source observation point, or destination observation point, as expected. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-696[NETOBSERV-696])

Reviewer 3: ISG nit + rewording suggestion:
```suggestion
* The "reporter" option in the console plug-in is used to filter flows based on the observation point of either source node or destination node. Previously, this option mixed the flows regardless of the node observation point. This was due to network flows being incorrectly reported as Ingress or Egress at the node level.  Now, the network flow direction reporting is correct. The "reporter" option filters for source observation point, or destination observation point, as expected. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-696[NETOBSERV-696])
```

> * Previously, for agents configured to send flows directly to the processor as GRPC+protobuf requests, the submitted payload could be too large and is rejected by the processors' GRPC server. This occured under  very-high-load scenarios and with only some configurations of the agent. The agent logged an error message, such as: _grpc: received message larger than max_. As a consequence, there was information loss about those flows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Previously, for agents configured to send flows directly to the processor as GRPC+protobuf requests, the submitted payload could be too large and consequently rejected by the processors' GRPC server. This occurred under very high-load scenarios and with only some configurations of the agent. The agent logged an error message, such as: _grpc: received message larger than max_. As a consequence, there was information loss about those flows.
```

> Now, the GRPC payload is split into several messages when the size exceeds a threshold. As a result, the connectivity is maintained. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-617[NETOBSERV-617])

Reviewer 3: suggestion for removal of past tense:
```suggestion
Now, the GRPC payload is split into several messages when the size exceeds a threshold. As a result, the server maintains connectivity. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-617[NETOBSERV-617])
```

> * Previously, custom namespaces were supported. Custom namespaces are no longer supported. You cannot automatically upgrade to the new Operator version if you previously installed the Network Observability Operator using a custom namespace. You must delete the instances of the Operator using the cusom namespace and re-install your operator in the `openshift-netobserv-operator` namespace. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-907[NETOBSERV-907])

Reviewer 4: > Previously, custom namespaces were supported.

It misses the precision that this is for the operator installation - it's important because custom namespaces are still possible for the FlowCollector related deployments (ie what you set in `spec.namespace`).
So basically:
- Operator must be in `openshift-netobserv-operator` namespace.
- Others (FLP, Agent, plugin...) can be customized

Author: @jotak AH, got it. Addressed.

Reviewer 5: @skrthomas typically we use the `netobserv` namespace for those pods (we also use this NS for Loki/Kafka pods in QE) if you want to suggest an example, but +1 to what @jotak said these resources can be anywhere so long as things are properly configured

Author: Gotcha. I amended this 907 note quite a bit, so hopefully there's more clarity around namespaces, and why we changed things.

Author: Per discussion in Scrum and Slack, this bug fix note was moved to Notable Technical Updates

> * Previously, you could install the Network Observability Operator using a custom namespace. Now, the Operator must be installed in the `openshift-netobserv-operator` namespace. You cannot automatically upgrade to the new Operator version if you previously installed the Network Observability Operator using a custom namespace. If you previously installed the Operator using a cusom namespace, you must delete the instance of the Operator that was installed and re-install your operator in the `openshift-netobserv-operator` namespace. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-907[NETOBSERV-907])

Reviewer 5: Not sure if we want to include something here about why, and call out the new metric collection via Prometheus

Author: I guess, the only "why" i can gather is because we added the conversion webhook and now can't have installMode OwnNamespace (and I only gather this from comments here https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-907). I think I need some help connecting the dots about metric collection and Prometeus and the conversion webhook. @msherif1234 do you think this bug release note needs more context?

Reviewer 6: > I guess, the only "why" i can gather is because we added the conversion webhook and now can't have installMode OwnNamespace (and I only gather this from comments here https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-907). I think I need some help connecting the dots about metric collection and Prometeus and the conversion webhook. @msherif1234 do you think this bug release note needs more context?

- 1st there is typo `cusom` ->`custom`
- Now why we need custom namespace
for the metric part we have to add specific annotation to the namespace where we deploy the operator in ` openshift.io/cluster-monitoring=true`, and we can't do that for namespace that was shared by other operators `openshift-operators` hence we have to create our own.
- Why operator can't be installed in any namespace as it used to be 
in this release we introduced `conversion webhook` which forces us to change CSV based on  
https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/advanced-tasks/adding-admission-and-conversion-webhooks/#conversion-webhook-rules-requirements
the side effect of this change is we no longer sees all avaliable namespace lists

Author: Okay, last week I ammended this release note. Hopefully its more accurate now. I spoke with Joel, and the two bugs about namespace changes were related (being limited to a single namespace, and pinning a name for it).  For metrics we had to choose a single namespace name, because metrics wouldn't be collected if the user installed in a different namespace than the suggested one. So it is okay to keep these two bug release notes together. I will just add the second bug # to the release note now.

> * Previously, you could install the Network Observability Operator using a custom namespace. This release introduces the `conversion webhook` which changes the CSV. Because of this change, all the available namespaces are no longer listed. Additionally, to enable Operator metrics collection, namespaces that are shared with other Operators, like the `openshift-operators` namespace, cannot be used. Now, the Operator must be installed in the `openshift-netobserv-operator` namespace. You cannot automatically upgrade to the new Operator version if you previously installed the Network Observability Operator using a custom namespace. If you previously installed the Operator using a custom namespace, you must delete the instance of the Operator that was installed and re-install your operator in the `openshift-netobserv-operator` namespace. It is important to note that custom namespaces, such as the commonly used `netobserv` namespace, are still possible for the `FlowCollector`, Loki, Kafka, and other plugins. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-907[NETOBSERV-907])(link:https://https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-956[NETOBSERV-956])

Reviewer 3: rewording suggestion and Operator capitalization:
```suggestion
* Previously, you could install the Network Observability Operator using a custom namespace. This release introduces the `conversion webhook` which changes the CSV. Because of this change, all the available namespaces are no longer listed. Additionally, namespaces that are shared with other Operators to enable Operator metrics collection, like the `openshift-operators` namespace, cannot be used. Now, the Operator must be installed in the `openshift-netobserv-operator` namespace. You cannot automatically upgrade to the new Operator version if you previously installed the Network Observability Operator using a custom namespace. If you previously installed the Operator using a custom namespace, you must delete the instance of the Operator that was installed and re-install your Operator in the `openshift-netobserv-operator` namespace. It is important to note that custom namespaces, such as the commonly used `netobserv` namespace, are still possible for the `FlowCollector`, Loki, Kafka, and other plug-ins. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-907[NETOBSERV-907])(link:https://https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-956[NETOBSERV-956])
```
additionally, what does CSV mean in this context? ISG recommends expanding the abbreviation unless it's commonly known

Author: `ClusterServiceVersion` yeah probs not known..I had to verify this myself. Good catch.

* Previously, for agents configured to send flows directly to the processor as GRPC+protobuf requests, the submitted payload could be too large and is rejected by the processors' GRPC server. This occured under  very-high-load scenarios and with only some configurations of the agent. The agent logged an error message, such as: _grpc: received message larger than max_. As a consequence, there was information loss about those flows.
Now, the GRPC payload is split into several messages when the size exceeds a threshold. As a result, the server maintains connectivity. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-617[*NETOBSERV-617*])

[id="network-observability-operator-1.2.0-known-issues"]

> === Known issue

Reviewer 7: @skrthomas yes, based on Nathan's description on [NETOBSERV-980](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-980) it does seem loss is temporary.

> === Known issue

Author: Ok I think that's important, so I added that its temporary data loss. I feel like "data loss" alone may more of a cause for concern.

> * In the 1.2.0 release of the Network Observability Operator, a Loki CA certificate issue periodically affects `flowlogs-pipeline` pods and results in dropped flows rather than flows written to Loki. The problem seems to self-correct, but it still causes flow data loss. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-980[*NETOBSERV-980*])

Reviewer: @skrthomas what about:
```suggestion
* In the 1.2.0 release of the Network Observability Operator, using Loki Operator 5.6, a certificate issue periodically affects `flowlogs-pipeline` pods and results in dropped flows rather than flows written to Loki. The problem self-correct after some time but causes flow logs loss during the transition. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-980[*NETOBSERV-980*])
```

Author: okay, those additional details are perfect. Will add them. TY!

Author: What is the "transition" happening? Is it certificate transitions?

Reviewer 7: @skrthomas the transition is happening for FLP to load newly rotated certificates.
